README.adoc, before:

ifdef::env-github[]
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:warning-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
endif::[]
= mangos v2

image:https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/linux?logoColor=grey&logo=ubuntu&label=[Linux Status,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/windows?logoColor=grey&logo=windows&label=[Windows Status,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/darwin?logoColor=grey&logo=apple&label=[Darwin Status,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nanomsg/mangos?logoColor=grey&logo=codecov&label=[Coverage,link="https://codecov.io/gh/nanomsg/mangos"]
image:https://img.shields.io/codacy/grade/0addd1f6c00e4251b37854f3499e6d76?logoColor=grey&logo=codacy&label=[Code Quality,link="https://app.codacy.com/manual/gdamore/mangos/dashboard"]
image:https://img.shields.io/discord/639573728212156478?label=&logo=discord[Discord,link="https://discord.gg/wewTkby"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/godoc-docs-blue.svg?label=&logo=go[GoDoc,link="https://godoc.org/nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/license/nanomsg/mangos.svg?logoColor=silver&logo=Open Source Initiative&label=&color=blue[Apache 2.0 License,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/blob/master/LICENSE"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nanomsg/mangos?logo=github&sort=semver&label=[Latest version,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/releases"]
// image:https://goreportcard.com/badge/nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2?style=flat[Go Report Card,link="https://goreportcard.com/report/nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2"]


[cols="2",grid="none",frame="none",options="autowidth"]
|===
|_Mangos&trade;_ v2  is an implementation in pure Go of the *SP*
("`Scalability Protocols`") messaging system.
These are colloquially  known as a "`nanomsg`".
a|image::mangos.jpg[float="right"]
|===

NOTE: This is version 2 of _mangos_, and contains breaking changes and
rather different API in some circumstances relative to version 1.  To use the
original version of _mangos_ please see https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos-v1

The modern C implementation of the SP protocols is available as
https://github.com/nanomsg/nng[__NNG&trade;__].

The original implementation of the SP protocols is available as
http://www.nanomsg.org[__nanomsg&trade;__].

Generally (modulo a few caveats) all of these implementations can inter-operate.

The design is intended to make it easy to add new transports with almost
trivial effort, as well as new topologies ("`protocols`" in SP parlance.)

At present, all of the Req/Rep, Pub/Sub, Pair, Bus, Push/Pull, and
Surveyor/Respondent patterns are supported.
This project also supports an experimental protocol called Star.

Supported transports include TCP, inproc, IPC, WebSocket, WebSocket/TLS and TLS.

Basic interoperability with nanomsg and NNG has been verified (you can do
so yourself with `nanocat` and `macat`) for all protocols and transports
that _NNG_ and _nanomsg_ support, except for the _ZeroTier_ transport and the PAIRv1
protocol, which are only supported in _NNG_ at this time.

There are a number of projects that use these products together.

// There is a third party experimental QUIC transport available at
// [quic-mangos](https://github.com/lthibault/quic-mangos).
// (An RFE to make this transport official exists.)

// If you find this useful, I would appreciate knowing about it.  I can be reached
// via my email address, garrett -at- damore -dot- org

== Documentation

For docs, see https://godoc.org/nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2 or run:

    $ godoc -http=:6060

then see http://localhost:6060/pkg/nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2/

== Testing

This package supports internal self tests, which can be run in
the idiomatic Go way.
(Note that most of the tests are in a test subdirectory.)

    $ go test nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2/...

There are also internal benchmarks available:

    $ go test -bench=. nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2/test

== Commercial Support

mailto:info@staysail.tech[Staysail Systems, Inc.] offers
http://staysail.tech/support/mangos[commercial support] for mangos.

== Examples

Some examples are posted in the directories under `examples/` in this project.

These examples are rewrites (in Go) of Tim Dysinger's
http://nanomsg.org/gettingstarted/index.html[Getting Started with Nanomsg].

Running `godoc` in the example directories will yield information about how
to run each example program.

Enjoy!

'''
Copyright 2020 The Mangos Authors

mangos&trade;, Nanomsg&trade; and NNG&trade; are http://nanomsg.org/trademarks.html[trademarks] of Garrett D'Amore.

Commit message:

Move imports to go.nanomsg.org  This is the start of v3.

README.adoc, after:

ifdef::env-github[]
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:warning-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
endif::[]
= mangos

image:https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/linux?logoColor=grey&logo=ubuntu&label=[Linux Status,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/windows?logoColor=grey&logo=windows&label=[Windows Status,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/darwin?logoColor=grey&logo=apple&label=[Darwin Status,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nanomsg/mangos?logoColor=grey&logo=codecov&label=[Coverage,link="https://codecov.io/gh/nanomsg/mangos"]
image:https://img.shields.io/codacy/grade/0addd1f6c00e4251b37854f3499e6d76?logoColor=grey&logo=codacy&label=[Code Quality,link="https://app.codacy.com/manual/gdamore/mangos/dashboard"]
image:https://img.shields.io/discord/639573728212156478?label=&logo=discord[Discord,link="https://discord.gg/wewTkby"]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/godoc-docs-blue.svg?label=&logo=go[GoDoc,link="https://godoc.org/go.nanomsg.org/mangos"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/license/nanomsg/mangos.svg?logoColor=silver&logo=Open Source Initiative&label=&color=blue[Apache 2.0 License,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/blob/master/LICENSE"]
image:https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nanomsg/mangos?logo=github&sort=semver&label=[Latest version,link="https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/releases"]
// image:https://goreportcard.com/badge/go.nanomsg.org/mangos?style=flat[Go Report Card,link="https://goreportcard.com/report/go.nanomsg.org/mangos"]


[cols="2",grid="none",frame="none",options="autowidth"]
|===
|_Mangos&trade;_  is an implementation in pure Go of the *SP*
("`Scalability Protocols`") messaging system.
These are colloquially  known as a "`nanomsg`".
a|image::mangos.jpg[float="right"]
|===

IMPORTANT: The import path has _changed_! Please change any references
from `nanomsg.org/go/mangos/v2` to `go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3`.
The old v2 imports will still work for old applications, provided that
a sufficiently modern version of Go is used.  However, no further work
will be done on v2.

TIP: Versions 1 and 2 of mangos were at different import locations.
Those versions will still inter-operate with this version, except that
within the same process the `inproc` transport can only be used by
consumers using the same version of mangos.

The modern C implementation of the SP protocols is available as
https://github.com/nanomsg/nng[__NNG&trade;__].

The original implementation of the SP protocols is available as
http://www.nanomsg.org[__nanomsg&trade;__].

Generally (modulo a few caveats) all of these implementations can inter-operate.

The design is intended to make it easy to add new transports with almost
trivial effort, as well as new topologies ("`protocols`" in SP parlance.)

At present, all of the Req/Rep, Pub/Sub, Pair, Bus, Push/Pull, and
Surveyor/Respondent patterns are supported.
This project also supports an experimental protocol called Star.

Supported transports include TCP, inproc, IPC, WebSocket, WebSocket/TLS and TLS.

Basic interoperability with nanomsg and NNG has been verified (you can do
so yourself with `nanocat` and `macat`) for all protocols and transports
that _NNG_ and _nanomsg_ support, except for the _ZeroTier_ transport and the PAIRv1
protocol, which are only supported in _NNG_ at this time.

There are a number of projects that use these products together.

// There is a third party experimental QUIC transport available at
// [quic-mangos](https://github.com/lthibault/quic-mangos).
// (An RFE to make this transport official exists.)

// If you find this useful, I would appreciate knowing about it.  I can be reached
// via my email address, garrett -at- damore -dot- org

== Documentation

For docs, see https://godoc.org/go.nanomsg.org/mangos or run:

    $ godoc -http=:6060

then see http://localhost:6060/pkg/go.nanomsg.org/mangos/

== Testing

This package supports internal self tests, which can be run in
the idiomatic Go way.
(Note that most of the tests are in a test subdirectory.)

    $ go test go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3/...

There are also internal benchmarks available:

    $ go test -bench=. go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3/test

== Commercial Support

mailto:info@staysail.tech[Staysail Systems, Inc.] offers
http://staysail.tech/support/mangos[commercial support] for mangos.

== Examples

Some examples are posted in the directories under `examples/` in this project.

These examples are rewrites (in Go) of Tim Dysinger's
http://nanomsg.org/gettingstarted/index.html[Getting Started with Nanomsg].

Running `godoc` in the example directories will yield information about how
to run each example program.

Enjoy!

'''
Copyright 2020 The Mangos Authors

mangos&trade;, Nanomsg&trade; and NNG&trade; are http://nanomsg.org/trademarks.html[trademarks] of Garrett D'Amore.
