README.md, before:

# mangos&trade; v3

[![Stand With Ukraine](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/badges/StandWithUkraine.svg)](https://stand-with-ukraine.pp.ua)
[![Linux](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/linux.yml?branch=master&logoColor=grey&logo=linux&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/windows.yml?branch=master&logoColor=grey&logo=windows&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/darwin.yml?branch=master&logoColor=grey&logo=apple&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nanomsg/mangos?logoColor=grey&logo=codecov&label=)](https://codecov.io/gh/nanomsg/mangos)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/639573728212156478?label=&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/wewTkby)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/godoc-docs-blue.svg?label=&logo=go)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nanomsg/mangos.svg?logoColor=silver&logo=opensourceinitiative&label=&color=blue)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nanomsg/mangos?logo=github&sort=semver&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/releases)

Please see [here](UKRAINE.md) for an important message for the people of Russia.

_Mangos&trade;_ is an implementation in pure Go of the _SP_
(`Scalability Protocols`) messaging system.
These are colloquially known as `nanomsg`.

> _NOTE_: The import path has changed! Please change any references
> to `go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3`.
> The old v2 imports will still work for old applications, provided that
> a sufficiently modern version of Go is used. However, no further work
> will be done on earlier versions.
> Earlier versions will still inter-operate with this version, except that
> within the same process the `inproc` transport can only be used by
> consumers using the same version of mangos.

The modern C implementation of the SP protocols is available as
[NNG&trade;](https://github.com/nanomsg/nng).

The original implementation of the SP protocols is available as
[nanomsg&trade;](http://www.nanomsg.org).

Generally (modulo a few caveats) all of these implementations can inter-operate.

The design is intended to make it easy to add new transports,
as well as new topologies (`protocols` in SP parlance.)

At present, all the Req/Rep, Pub/Sub, Pair, Bus, Push/Pull, and
Surveyor/Respondent patterns are supported.
This project also supports an experimental protocol called Star.

Supported transports include TCP, inproc, IPC, WebSocket, WebSocket/TLS and TLS.

Basic interoperability with nanomsg and NNG has been verified (you can do
so yourself with `nanocat` and `macat`) for all protocols and transports
that _NNG_ and _nanomsg_ support, except for the _ZeroTier_ transport and the PAIRv1
protocol, which are only supported in _NNG_ at this time.

There are a number of projects that use these products together.

## Documentation

For API documentation, see https://pkg.go.dev/go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3.

## Testing

This package supports internal self tests, which can be run in
the idiomatic Go way.
(Note that most of the tests are in a test subdirectory.)

    $ go test go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3/...

There are also internal benchmarks available:

    $ go test -bench=. go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3/test

## Commercial Support

[Staysail Systems, Inc.](mailto:info@staysail.tech) offers
[commercial support](http://staysail.tech/support/mangos) for mangos.

## Examples

Some examples are posted in the directories under `examples/` in this project.

These examples are rewrites (in Go) of Tim Dysinger's
[Getting Started with Nanomsg](http://nanomsg.org/gettingstarted/index.html).

Running `go doc` in the example directories will yield information about how
to run each example program.

Enjoy!

---

Copyright 2021 The Mangos Authors

mangos&trade;, Nanomsg&trade; and NNG&trade; are [trademarks](http://nanomsg.org/trademarks.html) of Garrett D'Amore.

Commit message:

Use "stable" and "oldstable", and formally declare our support for Go versions.
We need to follow the same go version commitments so that we can adopt new
Go APIs, but mostly also so that we can include updated dependencies which may
be necessary to fix security bugs.

README.md, after:

# mangos&trade; v3

[![Stand With Ukraine](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vshymanskyy/StandWithUkraine/main/badges/StandWithUkraine.svg)](https://stand-with-ukraine.pp.ua)
[![Linux](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/linux.yml?branch=master&logoColor=grey&logo=linux&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions)
[![Windows](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/windows.yml?branch=master&logoColor=grey&logo=windows&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nanomsg/mangos/darwin.yml?branch=master&logoColor=grey&logo=apple&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/actions)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/nanomsg/mangos?logoColor=grey&logo=codecov&label=)](https://codecov.io/gh/nanomsg/mangos)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/639573728212156478?label=&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/wewTkby)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/godoc-docs-blue.svg?label=&logo=go)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/nanomsg/mangos.svg?logoColor=silver&logo=opensourceinitiative&label=&color=blue)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/nanomsg/mangos?logo=github&sort=semver&label=)](https://github.com/nanomsg/mangos/releases)

Please see [here](UKRAINE.md) for an important message for the people of Russia.

_Mangos&trade;_ is an implementation in pure Go of the _SP_
(`Scalability Protocols`) messaging system.
These are colloquially known as `nanomsg`.

> _NOTE_: The import path has changed! Please change any references
> to `go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3`.
> The old v2 imports will still work for old applications, provided that
> a sufficiently modern version of Go is used. However, no further work
> will be done on earlier versions.
> Earlier versions will still inter-operate with this version, except that
> within the same process the `inproc` transport can only be used by
> consumers using the same version of mangos.

The modern C implementation of the SP protocols is available as
[NNG&trade;](https://github.com/nanomsg/nng).

The original implementation of the SP protocols is available as
[nanomsg&trade;](http://www.nanomsg.org).

Generally (modulo a few caveats) all of these implementations can inter-operate.

The design is intended to make it easy to add new transports,
as well as new topologies (`protocols` in SP parlance.)

At present, all the Req/Rep, Pub/Sub, Pair, Bus, Push/Pull, and
Surveyor/Respondent patterns are supported.
This project also supports an experimental protocol called Star.

Supported transports include TCP, inproc, IPC, WebSocket, WebSocket/TLS and TLS.

Basic interoperability with nanomsg and NNG has been verified (you can do
so yourself with `nanocat` and `macat`) for all protocols and transports
that _NNG_ and _nanomsg_ support, except for the _ZeroTier_ transport and the PAIRv1
protocol, which are only supported in _NNG_ at this time.

There are a number of projects that use these products together.

## Documentation

For API documentation, see https://pkg.go.dev/go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3.

## Testing

This package supports internal self tests, which can be run in
the idiomatic Go way.
(Note that most of the tests are in a test subdirectory.)

    $ go test go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3/...

There are also internal benchmarks available:

    $ go test -bench=. go.nanomsg.org/mangos/v3/test

## Commercial Support

[Staysail Systems, Inc.](mailto:info@staysail.tech) offers
[commercial support](http://staysail.tech/support/mangos) for mangos.

## Compatibility

Mangos should run on any reasonable platform, but we officially follow
the same support matrix as Go - meaning only the most recent release of Go, and
the release preceding it are guaranteed support.  Having said that, we generally
will attempt not to break earlier versions of Go intentionally.

As of this writing, Go versions before 1.22 are not supported (because of dependency
requirements).

## Examples

Some examples are posted in the directories under `examples/` in this project.

These examples are rewrites (in Go) of Tim Dysinger's
[Getting Started with Nanomsg](http://nanomsg.org/gettingstarted/index.html).

Running `go doc` in the example directories will yield information about how
to run each example program.

Enjoy!

---

Copyright 2025 The Mangos Authors

mangos&trade;, Nanomsg&trade; and NNG&trade; are [trademarks](http://nanomsg.org/trademarks.html) of Garrett D'Amore.
